= vim =

== modes ==
(:h vim-modes)
- normal
- visual: charwise-visual, linewise-visual, blockwise-visual
- select
- insert
- cmdline
- ex
- terminal
- operator-pending
- replace
- virtual replace
- insert normal
- insert visual
- insert select

The most important ones are: normal, insert and cmdline. And maybe visual.

== definitions ==
(:h definitions)
- buffer: Contains lines of text, usually from a file.
- screen: The whole area that Vim uses to display things.
- window: A view on a buffer.  There can be multiple windows for one buffer.
- frame: (only in nvim docs) Windows are kept in a tree of frames.  Each frame contains a column,
  row, or window ("leaf" frame).
- tabpage: A tab page holds one or more windows. (:h tabpage)

A screen contains one or more windows, separated by status lines and with the
command line at the bottom.
>
        +-------------------------------+
 screen | window 1      | window 2      |
        |               |               |
        |               |               |
        |= status line =|= status line =|
        | window 3                      |
        |                               |
        |                               |
        |==== status line ==============|
        |command line                   |
        +-------------------------------+

The command line is also used for messages.  It scrolls up the screen when
there is not enough room in the command line.

A difference is made between four types of lines:

- buffer lines:  The lines in the buffer.  This is the same as the
                 lines as they are read from/written to a file.  They
                 can be thousands of characters long.
- logical lines: The buffer lines with folding applied.  Buffer lines
                 in a closed fold are changed to a single logical line:
                 "+-- 99 lines folded".  They can be thousands of
                 characters long.
- window lines:  The lines displayed in a window: A range of logical
                 lines with wrapping, line breaks, etc.  applied.  They
                 can only be as long as the width of the window allows,
                 longer lines are wrapped or truncated.
- screen lines:  The lines of the screen that Nvim uses.  Consists of
                 the window lines of all windows, with status lines
                 and the command line added.  They can only be as long
                 as the width of the screen allows.  When the command
                 line gets longer it wraps and lines are scrolled to
                 make room.

